These are some things I would like to see for future versions of the
interface, as of this writing.  The current list can be seen at:

http://nethack-curses.wikia.com/wiki/Developers

NetHack Interface

   (These are the functions in cursmain.c called by the core NetHack code)
     * Implement curses_rip for optional fancier color tombstone, as well
       as one that will display correctly on smaller terminals.

     * I am confused as to how mark_synch, wait_synch, and delay_output
       should work. Help, please?

     * Both PDCurses and Ncurses have mouse support, so the poskey
       function could probably be implemented easily enough.

     * raw_print is supposed to be able to work before the windowing
       system has been initialized, as well as after, so I am unsure if
       curses functions should be used here. Maybe check to see if
       initscr() has been called, and use curses functions if so, and call
       initscr() from there is not? Right now it is just a call to puts()
       with no support for bold text.

Display

     * Consolidate refreshes of the display for smoother output.

     * Horizontal scrollbar to show position for displays < 80 columns.

     * Calls to getch() should probably be turned into wgetch() for the
       appropriate window. This causes quirky cursor behavior under
       PDCurses, however.

     * Animation effects do not display properly - this could probably be
       fixed with a correct implementation of the delay_output function.

     * Support option to set foreground and background colors for
       individual windows

Menus

   (cursdial.c)
     * Currently the "preselected" flag for an individual menu item is
       ignored. This should eventually be implemented.

     * Menus probably should never overlap with the message window, since
       the user sometimes needs to be able to see the messages while the
       menu is active, e.g. when identifying multiple items one at a time.

     * Perhaps allow for keyboard navigation of individual items, e.g.
       using the up and down arrows to move among the selectable items,
       and selecting individual items with the spacebar. Perhaps the tab
       key could jump to the first selectable item after the next heading,
       and shift-tab could jump to the first item of the previous heading.

     * Need to consider reusing accelerators as some other windowports do,
       or otherwise go beyond numbers to get more.

Map Window

   (curswins.c)
     * The map window would probably benefit from a total redesign. Right
       now, it uses a pad instead of a regular curses window, which causes
       a number of special cases in the code to account for it, and a
       separate window behind it just to draw the border. It feels kludgy
       and annoying!

     * This is something fairly silly and whimsical, but it seems like it
       would be fun to have a "tiles mode" od sorts for the curses port
       that used ASCII-art "tiles".

Status Window

   (cursstat.c)
     * If the status window is on the right or left, then we have much
       more room to work with for each item horizontally. Expand out some
       of the labels for clarity. We can also list the current dungeon
       (e.g. Gnomish Mines) and perhaps show thermometer bars for hit
       points and magical power.

     * Conversely, if we have a narrower display, compress some of the
       labels to save space, and do not display some items that never or
       rarely change (e.g. name, level and title, and alignment). Perhaps
       display changes to these fields in the message window if they do
       happen to change (e.g. converting to a new alignment).

     * Maybe add some configuration options for what colors are used and
       the like.

Other Dialogs

   (cursdial.c)
     * Extended commands should be enterable letter-by-letter via a '#'
       prompt if user does not have the extmenu command set to TRUE.

     * Character selection should allow for a random selection of any or
       all choices.

Other Platforms

   PDCurses also work on DOS and OS/2. PDCurses for SDL and ncurses exist
   for Mac OS X. Porting the curses interface to these platforms should
   not be too difficult.

Misc

     * Update documentation and in-game help to describe the newly-added
       options: cursesgraphics, term_rows, term_cols, and windowborders.

     * Recognize "Alt" key in a platform-independant way to allow its use
       to select extended commands. Currently this works for PDCurses. For
       Ncurses, the Alt key works in an xterm or rxvt if the -meta8 flag
       is passed, but I'd like to see a general way of detecting it.

     * PDCurses has a function named "addrawch" to output the visual
       representation of a control character to the screen without having
       the control character affect the display otherwise. I would like to
       find a way to accomplish the same thing via Ncurses to e.g. be able
       to use a font like nh10 with the correct symbol mappings in an
       xterm or the like.

     * Convert nh10.bdf text font into a format that PDCurses-SDL can use.

     * Allow all transient windows to be moved with arrows, possibly with
       modifier keys for multipage dialogs.

